id,title,authors,year,venue,doi,pdf_link,abstract,keywords,search_string
1,Beyond Retrieval: A Study of Using LLM Ensembles for Candidate Filtering in Requirements Traceability,D. Fuchß; S. Schwedt; J. Keim; T. Hey,2025,2025 IEEE 33rd International Requirements Engineering Conference Workshops (REW),10.1109/REW66121.2025.00006,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=11190238,"[Introduction] Requirements traceability is essential in software development, supporting tasks such as system understanding and change impact analysis. Traceability link recovery (TLR) methods, including those using large language models (LLMs) or retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), often rely on information retrieval (IR) to identify candidate artifact pairs. They are sensitive to hyperparameters (e.g., top-k, similarity thresholds) that require extensive, project-specific tuning.[Methods] We propose an inter-requirements TLR approach that uses an ensemble of small LLMs (or small language models (SLM)) to incrementally reduce the search space, aiming to replace IR-based candidate selection. We first analyze the sensitivity of IR methods to hyperparameters, then evaluate the ability of small LLMs to filter unrelated requirement pairs, and compare their performance when integrated into a TLR approach. The evaluation includes five projects from the requirements engineering community.[Results] We find that IR performance heavily depends on project-specific hyperparameter tuning. Furthermore, small LLMs effectively reduce the candidate space with minimal loss of recall. While our LLM-based ensemble approach achieves comparable F2-scores to IR methods, it lags in precision.[Conclusion] This work provides insights into the capabilities of small LLMs as a filter in inter-requirements TLR. Moreover, it provides insights into the performance of traditional IR techniques for TLR and their dependency on hyperparameters.",Traceability Link Recovery;Requirements Traceability;Requirements Engineering;Large Language Model;Small Language Model;Retrieval-Augmented Generation,String A
2,Requirements Classification for Traceability Link Recovery,T. Hey; J. Keim; S. Corallo,2024,2024 IEEE 32nd International Requirements Engineering Conference (RE),10.1109/RE59067.2024.00024,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=10628507,"Being aware of and understanding the relations between the requirements of a software system to its other artifacts is crucial for their successful development, maintenance and evolution. There are approaches to automatically recover this traceability information, but they fail to identify the actual relevant parts of the requirements. Recent large language model-based requirements classification approaches have shown to be able to identify aspects and concerns of requirements with promising accuracy. Therefore, we investigate the potential of those classification approaches for identifying irrelevant requirement parts for traceability link recovery between requirements and code. We train the large language model-based requirements classification approach NoRBERT on a new dataset of requirements and their entailed aspects and concerns. We use the results of the classification to filter irrelevant parts of the requirements before recovering trace links with the fine-grained word embedding-based FTLR approach. Two empirical studies show promising results regarding the quality of classification and the impact on traceability link recov-ery. NoRBERT can identify functional and user-related aspects in the requirements with an F I-score of 84 %. With the classification and requirements filtering, the performance of FTLR could be improved significantly and FTLR performs better than state-of-the-art unsupervised traceability link recovery approaches.",Requirements Classification;Traceability Link Recovery;Requirements Engineering;Machine Learning;Infor-mation Retrieval;Language Model,String A
3,Enhancing Requirement-to-Code Traceability via Chain-of-Thought Prompting in Large Language Models,W. Wang; Y. Wang; L. Zhao; Q. Huang; B. Jiang,2025,2025 32nd Asia-Pacific Software Engineering Conference (APSEC),10.1109/APSEC66846.2025.00083,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=11396549,"Leveraging the code comprehension capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs), we propose an automated approach to enhance Requirement-to-Code (R2C) traceability through Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting. Traditional Information Retrieval (IR) techniques (e.g., VSM, LSI) exhibit limited accuracy due to the semantic gap between natural language requirements and syntactic code structures. Our framework addresses this gap via two key innovations: (1) CoT-guided generation of functional code summaries through iterative reasoning steps (language identification, comment analysis, naming pattern interpretation), and (2) a similarity-based reordering strategy utilizing SimCSE embeddings to refine candidate links. Evaluations on four industrial datasets (iTrust, eTour, eANCI, SMOS) show $\mathbf{1 2 5. 4 7 \%,} \mathbf{6 3. 2 \%}$ and $\mathbf{6 2. 1 3 \%}$ average MAP improvements over LSI, FTLR+ and FQETLR+ baselines respectively. The approach demonstrates particular strength in low-coverage scenarios (106.19% average MAP improvement on eANCI). This study establishes novel approaches for LLM-driven traceability link recovery and provides actionable insights for integrating prompt engineering into software lifecycle tools.",Requirements traceability;Requirement-to-code links;Large language models;Chain-of-thought prompting;Code comprehension;Similarity metrics,String A
4,LiSSA: Toward Generic Traceability Link Recovery Through Retrieval-Augmented Generation,D. Fuchß; T. Hey; J. Keim; H. Liu; N. Ewald; T. Thirolf; A. Koziolek,2025,2025 IEEE/ACM 47th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE),10.1109/ICSE55347.2025.00186,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=11029919,"There are a multitude of software artifacts which need to be handled during the development and maintenance of a software system. These artifacts interrelate in multiple, complex ways. Therefore, many software engineering tasks are enabled - and even empowered - by a clear understanding of artifact interrelationships and also by the continued advancement of techniques for automated artifact linking. However, current approaches in automatic Traceability Link Recovery (TLR) target mostly the links between specific sets of artifacts, such as those between requirements and code. Fortu-nately, recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) can enable TLR approaches to achieve broad applicability. Still, it is a nontrivial problem how to provide the LLMs with the specific information needed to perform TLR. In this paper, we present LiSSA, a framework that har-nesses LLM performance and enhances them through Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG). We empirically evaluate LiSSA on three different TLR tasks, requirements to code, documentation to code, and architecture documentation to architecture models, and we compare our approach to state-of-the-art approaches. Our results show that the RAG-based approach can signifi-cantly outperform the state-of-the-art on the code-related tasks. However, further research is required to improve the performance of RAG-based approaches to be applicable in practice.",traceability link recovery;large language models;retrieval-augmented generation,String A
5,Prompts Matter: Insights and Strategies for Prompt Engineering in Automated Software Traceability,A. D. Rodriguez; K. R. Dearstyne; J. Cleland-Huang,2023,2023 IEEE 31st International Requirements Engineering Conference Workshops (REW),10.1109/REW57809.2023.00087,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=10260721,"Large Language Models (LLMs) have the potential to revolutionize automated traceability by overcoming the challenges faced by previous methods and introducing new possibilities. However, the optimal utilization of LLMs for automated traceability remains unclear. This paper explores the process of prompt engineering to extract link predictions from an LLM. We provide detailed insights into our approach for constructing effective prompts, offering our lessons learned. Additionally, we propose multiple strategies for leveraging LLMs to generate traceability links, improving upon previous zero-shot methods on the ranking of candidate links after prompt refinement. The primary objective of this paper is to inspire and assist future researchers and engineers by highlighting the process of constructing traceability prompts to effectively harness LLMs for advancing automatic traceability.",automated software traceability;large language models;prompt engineering,String A & String C & String D
6,Enabling Architecture Traceability by LLM-based Architecture Component Name Extraction,D. Fuchß; H. Liu; T. Hey; J. Keim; A. Koziolek,2025,2025 IEEE 22nd International Conference on Software Architecture (ICSA),10.1109/ICSA65012.2025.00011,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=10978943,"Traceability Link Recovery (TLR) is an enabler for various software engineering tasks. One important task is the recovery of trace links between Software Architecture Documentation (SAD) and source code. Here, the main challenge is the semantic gap between the two artifact types. Recent research has shown that this semantic gap can be bridged by using Software Architecture Models (SAMs) as intermediates. However, the creation of SAMs is a manual and time-consuming task. This paper investigates the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) to extract component names as simple SAMs for TLR based on SAD and source code. By doing so, we aim to bridge the semantic gap between SAD and source code without the need for manual SAM creation. We compare our approach to the state-of-the-art TLR approaches TransArC and ArDoCode. TransArC is the currently best-performing approach for TLR between SAD and source code, but it requires SAMs as an additional artifact. Our evaluation shows that our approach performs comparable to TransArC (weighted average F1 with GPT-4o: 0.86 vs. TransArC’s 0.87), while only needing the SAD and source code. Moreover, our approach significantly outperforms the best baseline that does not need SAMs (weighted average F1 with GPT-4o: 0.86 vs. ArDoCode’s 0.62). In summary, our approach shows that LLMs can be used to make TLR between SAD and source code more applicable by extracting component names and omitting the need for manually created SAMs.",Traceability Link Recovery;Large Language Models;Software Architecture;Model Extraction,String A
7,Establishing Traceability Between Release Notes & Software Artifacts: Practitioners' Perspectives,S. S. Nath; B. Roy; M. Jahan,2025,2025 IEEE International Conference on Collaborative Advances in Software and COmputiNg (CASCON),10.1109/CASCON66301.2025.00067,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=11344146,"Maintaining traceability links between software release notes and corresponding development artifacts, e.g., pull requests (PRs), commits, and issues, is essential for managing technical debt and ensuring maintainability. However, in opensource environments where contributors work remotely and asynchronously, establishing and maintaining these links is often error-prone, time-consuming, and frequently overlooked. Our empirical study of GitHub repositories revealed that 47 % of release artifacts lacked traceability links, and $\mathbf{1 2 \%}$ contained broken links. To address this gap, we first analyzed release notes to identify their What, Why, and How information and assessed how these align with PRs, commits, and issues. We curated a benchmark dataset consisting of 3,500 filtered and validated traceability link instances. Then, we implemented LLM-based approaches to automatically establish traceability links of three pairs between release note contents & PRs, release note contents & PRs and release note contents & issues. By combining the time proximity feature, the LLM-based approach, e.g., Gemini 1.5 Pro, achieved a high Precision@1 value of 0.73 for PR traceability recovery. To evaluate the usability and adoption potential of this approach, we conducted an online survey involving 33 opensource practitioners. 16 % of respondents rated as very important, and 68 % as somewhat important for traceability maintenance.",Release notes;Traceability;GitHub;Human study,String A
8,Single-pass Hierarchical Text Classification with Large Language Models,F. Schmidt; K. Hammerfald; H. H. Jahren; A. H. Payberah; V. Vlassov,2024,2024 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (BigData),10.1109/BigData62323.2024.10825412,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=10825412,"Numerous text classification tasks inherently possess hierarchical structures among classes, often overlooked in traditional classification paradigms. This study introduces novel approaches for hierarchical text classification using Large Language Models (LLMs), exploiting taxonomies to improve accuracy and traceability in a zero-shot setting. We propose two hierarchical classification methods, namely (i) single-path and (ii) path-traversal, which all leverage the hierarchical class structures inherent in the target classes (e.g., a bird is a type of animal that belongs to a species) and improve naïve hierarchical text classification from literature. We implement them as prompts for generative models such as OpenAI GPTs and benchmark them against discriminative language models (BERT and RoBERTa). We measure the classification performance (precision, recall, and F1-score) vs. computational efficiency (time and cost). Throughout the evaluations of the classification methods on two diverse datasets, namely ComFaSyn, containing mental health patients’ diary entries, and DBpedia, containing structured information extracted from Wikipedia, we observed that our methods, without any form of fine-tuning and few-shot examples, achieve comparable results to flat classification and existing methods from literature with minimal increases in the prompts and processing time.",Hierarchical text classification;Large Language Models (LLMs);zero-shot classification,String B
9,A Method for Constructing Traditional Chinese Medicine Knowledge Graphs via LoRa Fine-Tuning and Prompt Engineering,K. Qin; Z. Dong; J. Xiong; J. Liang,2025,2025 2nd International Symposium on AI and Cybersecurity (ISAICS),10.1109/ISAICS66888.2025.11350127,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=11350127,"This paper proposes a method for constructing Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) knowledge graphs by integrating LoRA fine-tuning with structured prompt engineering. The approach aims to reduce annotation costs of TCM knowledge graph construction while enhancing the accuracy and automation of knowledge extraction. We first curate an instruction-tuning dataset from TCM classical texts. The DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B model is then adapted using Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA), optimizing only 0.1% of parameters to capture domain-specific semantics. For knowledge extraction, we design a “threestep prompting” strategy that precisely guides the model in recognizing hierarchical entities and relations. Experimental results achieve $\mathbf{F 1}$ score of 91.71% for entity recognition and 73.99% for relation extraction. The knowledge graph unifies core TCM concepts-including herb properties, symptomdisease associations, and syndrome progression patternsenabling interactive visualization, relation traceability, and multi-hop querying. This structured repository reveals intrinsic pathological interactions in TCM clinical practice, providing clinicians with interpretable decision support for precision diagnosis.",Knowledge graph;large language model;information extraction;LoRA;prompt engineering,String C
10,On the Effectiveness of Zero-Shot and Few-Shot Pretrained Language Models for Software Requirement Classification,M. Shafikuzzaman; M. R. Islam; S. Zaman; A. Ma; A. Islam Sifat,2025,IEEE Access,10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3607813,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=11153850,"Accurate classification of software requirements, particularly distinguishing between fun- ctional and non-functional requirements, is essential for enabling traceability, guiding system design, and ensuring project success. Traditional supervised machine learning methods have shown promise in this domain but suffer from limited generalizability, high labeling costs, and overfitting. Recent advances in pretrained language models (PLMs) offer new opportunities for effective requirement classification through zero-shot (ZS) and few-shot (FS) learning. This study investigates the effectiveness of ZS and FS PLMs, including prompt-based generative large language models (e.g., GPT-4o and Llama3), in classifying functional vs. non-functional requirements and non-functional subtypes, such as usability, security, operational, and performance requirements. We conduct a comprehensive empirical evaluation across five classification tasks using two widely adopted datasets: PROMISE and SecReq. The study compares six PLMs, including two ZS, two FS transformer models, and two generative Large Language Models under both ZS and FS settings. We benchmark these models against state-of-the-art and domain-specific baselines, and complement the quantitative analysis with a detailed qualitative error analysis. FS models, such as All-MPNET, All-DistilRoBERTa, and GPT-4o in the FS setting, consistently outperform ZS models across all tasks, achieving superior performance in multi-class NFR and security requirement classification. While NoRBERT remains superior in binary FR/NFR classification, our FS models outperform or match its performance in other scenarios. ZS models, such as GPT-4o, also demonstrate strong results without requiring training data, highlighting their practical utility. Error analysis reveals that annotation issues and lack of context are major sources of misclassification. Our findings establish that ZS and FS PLMs, especially prompt-based generative large language models, offer viable and scalable alternatives to traditional supervised approaches. This study lays the foundation for the broader adoption of prompt-based PLMs in requirement engineering.",Requirement classification;software engineering;GPT-4o;zero-shot;few-shot,String C
11,Vision-Language RAG for Post-AOI PCB Inspection,M. S. Byun; M. Yoke Hean Low; D. W. Lin; C. Chung Hong; Y. C. Tan; D. Pang Ngin Ong,2025,"2025 IEEE International Conference on Service Operations and Logistics, and Informatics (SOLI)",10.1109/SOLI66289.2025.11396321,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=11396321,"This study introduces an AOI advisory system utilizing a multimodal Large Language Model (LLM) augmented with Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) for PCB defect detection. Operating as a post-inspection ""second opinion"" tool, it interprets complex results and generates explainable quality reports by correlating with historical defect data. Our approach, unlike traditional image classification, leverages RAG and vision-language models to provide context-rich, reference-backed justifications, aiming to reduce false calls and enhance traceability. Experiments show that RAG improves the accuracy in identifying multiple co-occurring defects, achieving 37.04% compared to 33.33% for the No-RAG approach at prompt level 1, and 77.78% compared to 44.44% for the No-RAG approach at prompt level 6. These findings suggest that RAG significantly enhances LLM performance in complex PCB inspection, offering a pathway beyond reliance on detailed prompt engineering.",Multimodal AI;LLM;RAG;AOI;PCB Inspection;Defect Detection,String C
12,A Systematic LLM-Assisted Approach for Deriving Skills From Competencies: A Case in Business Process Management Education,G. R. Rockembach; M. E. S. Sánchez; L. H. Thom,2026,IEEE Access,10.1109/ACCESS.2026.3692408,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=11515136,"Competency frameworks play a central role in aligning educational objectives with professional practice. However, systematically deriving granular, assessable skills from high-level competencies remains an unresolved methodological challenge across domains. Despite the maturity of several fields, many lack structured and reproducible processes for translating competencies into measurable skills. This article introduces a systematic and generalizable method for deriving skills from competencies using Large Language Models (LLMs) guided by explicit pedagogical heuristics. The proposed pipeline was designed to ensure syntactic compliance, cognitive granularity, traceability to source materials, and controlled generation. Its primary empirical validation was conducted in the domain of Business Process Management, a mature field that nevertheless lacks a consolidated and assessable skill framework. The method was first evaluated through an internal quality analysis and expert-based validation of the generated skills, demonstrating consistent pedagogical alignment and model convergence. It was then compared against seven baseline approaches, ranging from classical text processing techniques to direct and fine-tuned LLMs. Results indicate that the heuristic-guided pipeline mitigates common limitations such as hallucination, rigidity, and loss of cognitive control, outperforming fine-tuned models in data-scarce educational contexts. Finally, to assess cross-domain generalizability, the method was applied to Environmental Education and compared against official Brazilian curriculum standards. Semantic similarity scores (0.39–0.82) showed strong alignment for broad cognitive competencies, but revealed coverage limitations for specific disciplinary skills due to corpus constraints. These findings suggest that the proposed approach provides a robust and scalable solution for competency-to-skill engineering in educational contexts.",Skills derivation;competency-based education;large language model;business process management,String C
13,Evaluating LLMs for Automated Requirement and Test Case Generation in Railway Signaling Systems,I. -G. Oțelea; B. Pintea; R. V. Rughiniș; V. Tîrșu,2025,2025 24th RoEduNet Conference: Networking in Education and Research (RoEduNet),10.1109/RoEduNet68395.2025.11208370,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=11208370,"Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown potential in supporting requirements engineering through automation, especially in regulated and safety-critical domains. This paper evaluates the capabilities of 3 well-known LLMs (GPT-4, Claude, Gemini) in transforming user requirements into structured product requirements and corresponding test cases within the context of railway signaling. A custom dataset of client requirements, inspired by realistic signaling scenarios, was developed to enable consistent evaluation across models. Each model's outputs were assessed using defined metrics, including completeness, correctness, consistency, and traceability. The comparative results highlight variations in quality and structure of the generated artifacts, with specific strengths observed for different tasks. While all three models demonstrate promise, their reliability and consistency vary, and human oversight remains essential. This study provides practical insights into the applicability of current LLMs for augmenting early-stage requirements and verification workflows in critical systems engineering.",LLM;Requirements Engineering;Automated Test Case Generation;Railway Signaling Systems;Safety-Critical Systems;NLP;Requirements Transformation,String C
14,"A Comparative Evaluation of RAG Architectures for Cross-Domain LLM Applications: Design, Implementation, and Assessment",P. Ersoy; M. Erşahın,2025,IEEE Access,10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3632404,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=11245479,"Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pairs large language models with external search to constrain knowledge staleness and hallucination, a critical need in finance and e-commerce where numerical precision and regulatory auditability are non-negotiable. This study resembles four paradigms: sparse, dense, hybrid, and fusion retrieval, each realized as LangChain templates for cloud-hosted GPT-4o and on-premises LLaMA deployments. We embed a zero-shot baseline and assess every pipeline with the Retrieval-Augmented Generation Assessment (RAGAS) protocol, which scores faithfulness, relevancy, context quality, and latency without revealing proprietary gold data. Hybrid and fusion systems achieve the best combination of recall and faithfulness. Dense retrieval maximizes semantic coverage; sparse retrieval provides clearer, faster traceability. Each yields substantial gains over the baseline by anchoring profit metrics, compliance evidence, and pricing to audited documents. Although empirical evaluation primarily focuses on finance and e-commerce, the same blueprints and metrics can apply to healthcare, education, and legal technology. The domains in scope demand reasoning that is traceable, bias-aware, and up to date. This study, therefore, provides an auditable, production-ready framework for reliable RAG across knowledge-intensive settings.",Artificial intelligence;generative AI;large language models;retrieval-augmented generation,String D
15,HGTRTracer: Advancing Requirements-Code Traceability with LLM-Augmented Attribution Reasoning and Heterogeneous Graph Transformer,H. Jin; Y. Yuan; B. Wang; H. Wan; Z. Zou,2025,2025 32nd Asia-Pacific Software Engineering Conference (APSEC),10.1109/APSEC66846.2025.00070,https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=11396602,"Traceability links between requirements and source code are crucial for maintaining software quality, yet traditional traceability methods exhibit critical limitations. Current methods predominantly rely on semantic similarity among artifacts, failing to account for link transitivity and the underlying rationale governing traceability link formation. To address these challenges, this study introduces HGTRTracer, a novel framework that integrates Large Language Models (LLMs) with Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) to advance traceability analysis. The proposed method innovatively incorporates attribution reasoning via LLMs to derive explicit “Reason nodes” that justify traceability links, with a Heterogeneous Graph Transformer (HGT) captures structural dependencies among nodes and edges to improve link prediction accuracy. Experiments conducted on 10 open-source projects demonstrate that HGTRTracer outperforms the state-of-the-art baseline (HGNNLink) by 12.90% in F1-score on average. Beyond performance gains, the framework enhances interpretability through its attribution-aware design, providing actionable insights for traceability decisions.",Requirements Traceability;Large Language Model;Graph Neural Network;Attribution Reasoning,String E
